How to handle missing values
for categorical data - missing value can be replaced with the mode of the data.
for continiuous data - missing value can be replaced with the mean or median.

consider the following data
1,3,4,5,6,7,5,4,2,5

Mode - 5 [most frequent value - a dataset can have one or more mode.]
Mean -  4.2   [ average of the data - a  dataset will have only one mean]
Median -  4.5 [ Middle most vlaue of the data(50th %ile value) - a dataset will habe only one median]

calculate median
s1.sort the data - 1,2,3,4,4,5,5,5,6,7
s2.choose the middle value
s3. if the #datapoints are even take the mean of middle points  - mean(4,5) - 4.5

dataframe
-reading
	read_csv
	read_excel
-accessing a column
	df[''columnName'']
-accessing a row	
df.loc[0]
-accessing a cell
df.loc[0,''columnname'']
df.iloc[0,1]


few questions
Super Market Sales Dataset
Attribute information
Invoice id: Computer generated sales slip invoice identification number
Branch: Branch of supercenter (3 branches are available identified by A, B and C).
City: Location of supercenters
Customer type: Type of customers, recorded by Members for customers using member card and Normal for without member card.
Gender: Gender type of customer
Product line: General item categorization groups - Electronic accessories, Fashion accessories, Food and beverages, Health and beauty, Home and lifestyle, Sports and travel
Unit price: Price of each product in $
Quantity: Number of products purchased by customer
Tax: 5% tax fee for customer buying
Total: Total price including tax
Date: Date of purchase (Record available from January 2019 to March 2019)
Time: Purchase time (10am to 9pm)
Payment: Payment used by customer for purchase (3 methods are available – Cash, Credit card and Ewallet)
COGS: Cost of goods sold
Gross margin percentage: Gross margin percentage
Gross income: Gross income
Rating: Customer stratification rating on their overall shopping experience (On a scale of 1 to 10)

Usecases

Total number of customers?
Most visited branch?
City vs customer analysis?
Customer ratio based on customer type?
Most sold product line? general analysis
Costiest product in the shop?
Total gross income?
Total gross income per branch?
Payment type analysis?
rush hours?
Total Margin?
Total % of margin?
convert the gross income into rupees for every invoice ID?

whatever be the use case , we have to do some early analysis on data.
to check data quality, data avaialability.

